---
layout: module
title: Module 1&#58; Creating a Cordova Project
---
## Steps

1. Make sure you have an up-to-date version of [Node.js](http://nodejs.org/) installed on your system.

1. Open Terminal (Mac) or a Command window (Windows), and type the following command to install the Cordova CLI:

  ```
  npm install -g cordova
  ```

  or on a Mac:

  ```
  sudo npm install -g cordova
  ```

  If you already have Cordova installed on your computer, make sure you upgrade to the latest version:

  ````
  npm update -g cordova
  ````

  or

  ````
  sudo npm update -g cordova
  ````

1. Navigate (cd) to a directory where you store projects on your file system.

1. Using the Cordova CLI, create a Cordova project named **Workshop** in a directory named **workshop**:

  ```
  cordova create workshop com.yourname.workshop Workshop
  ```

1. Navigate to the project directory:

  ```
  cd workshop
  ```

1. Add support for the iOS platform (optional)

    > To be able to build for the iOS platform, the iOS SDK must be installed on your system. If it's not, 
    you can skip this step and add support for another platform, or simply run the tutorial application in your 
    browser.

    1. Make sure the iOS SDK is available on your system.
    2. On the command line, make sure you are in the **workshop** directory and type:

        ```
        cordova platforms add ios
        ```
        
1. Add support for the Android platform (optional)
    > To be able to build for the Android platform, the Android SDK must be installed on your system. If it's not, 
    you can skip this step and add support for another platform, or simply run the tutorial application in your browser.
    1. Make sure the Android SDK and the ant build tool are available on your system. The Android SDK is available 
    [here](http://developer.android.com/sdk). Both the **android** and **ant** tools must be available in your path.
    2. On the command line, make sure you are in the **workshop** directory and type:

        ```
        cordova platforms add android
        ```

1. Make sure you are in the **workshop** directory, and add basic plugins to your projects:

  ```
  cordova plugin add org.apache.cordova.device
  cordova plugin add org.apache.cordova.console
  ```

1. Examine the directory structure under workshop.
    - The **www** folder is where you will code your HTML / JavaScript application. Open the index.html file in a 
    browser to see the default application created by the Cordova CLI.
    - The **platforms** folder is where Cordova will build your application for different platforms (iOS, Android, 
    etc). The contents of this folder will be automatically generated by the Cordova CLI, 
    and you should never edit code in that directory.
    - Plugins are installed in the **plugins** directory.
    - Application parameters (name, author, etc) are stored in **config.xml**. 


<div class="row" style="margin-top:40px;">
<div class="col-sm-12">
<a href="index.html" class="btn btn-default"><i class="glyphicon glyphicon-chevron-left"></i> Previous</a>
<a href="build-cordova-project.html" class="btn btn-default pull-right">Next <i class="glyphicon
glyphicon-chevron-right"></i></a>
</div>
</div>
